Hey everyone. So, a weekend and I think
OpenClaw is generally the best personal
AI assistant that I've ever used. It
truly feels like talking to a trusted
friend who can actually get stuff done
for me. But this is still really early
software. So, I want to do a deep dive
on how to set it up safely, my actual
use cases for calendar, docs, personal
briefings, and voice chat. how to link
it to Google Workspace, which I run my
life on, and finally, how to make it
truly personal and useful by getting a
peak into how it actually works and how
it actually manages memory. All right,
so here's a quick screenshot of my bot,
which I've called Zoe, introducing
herself. Let's dive into it. So, first
things first, let's recap how to set up
Open Claw safely so that you don't get
compromised. Number one, run it on a
dedicated computer. I installed it on a
Mac Mini, but any old MacBook would do.
You have to keep it running 24/7,
though, so that it stays on, and you can
do that using a free Mac app that I'll
link in the description. Number two,
sign up with its own credentials. My
Open Claw uses his own Apple and Gmail
ID. it does not have access to my main
Gmail account other than the files that
I've shared with it. Number three, run
open clause security audit. So in
terminal, all you got to do is type this
command that I'm showing here, claudebot
security audit-deep,
and it'll run through the steps and make
it more secure.
And number four, give it read access to
your account and write access to select
files. So, for example, it can read my
personal calendar and edit select Google
Docs and Sheets that I've shared with
it, but it doesn't have access to my
entire Google Drive. And last, but not
least, never share your bot with anyone
else. Don't add it to group chats or any
websites. You know, this last one is
super important. Here's a tweet from an
OpenClaw contributor on how MoBebook,
someone's vibecoded app, started leaking
confidential stuff to the public. Now,
if you want to make your bot truly
personal, you'll inevitably share some
personal information with it. So, I
personally would never share my bot with
others, whether it's a group chat or
putting on a public website. My bot can
only talk to me and me alone. Okay? And
I highly encourage you to do the same
thing. Okay, now let's get to the fun
part. I'm going to demo five tasks that
I've dedicated to my bot right now.
Managing calendar, editing documents,
talking to it using voice, getting daily
briefings, and weekly insight reports.
And I'm actually recording this from the
Mac Mini that my bot Zoe is on. So, let
me show you my chat with her right now.
Okay. So now let's actually walk through
the very first use case which is using
Zoey to manage my calendar. So here is
the Google calendar for Zoe. But what
I've done is I've shared my personal
calendar from my main account with her.
So what she can do is she can just send
me calendar invites, right? I can just
text her and she'll make something
happen. So let's do a demonstration. Uh,
let's say today is Sunday and I'm
thinking of going to the city with my
family. Can you look up cow train
schedules this morning around 10:00
a.m.? Okay, so Zoe has access to
browsing the web, right? So, we can
search the web and look up calrain
schedules and let's see what it responds
with. Okay. So, you see here that uh Zoe
has pulled up some couch schedules.
9:44, 10:14, 10:44. And u you know, my
my kids wake up pretty late. So, let's
aim for the 10:14 a.m. Cal Train
arriving the city and walking to the
fair building, right? Send me a calendar
invite for 10:14
a.m. Cal Train to the city. And let's
say it should be 3 hours. Call it family
trip to the ferry building. All right.
So again, Zoe has access to read my
calendar and it can also send invite to
my main Gmail. And let's see if she can
actually do it or not. Okay, so it said
it's done. And lo and behold, today on
Sunday, there is a calendar invite for a
family trip to the ferry building,
right? And the way that this works is
that, you know, this is Zoe's calendar,
but she added me as an attendee to this
calendar invite and I can accept or
decline the invite. Now, this is not as
powerful and robust as just giving
OpenCloud access to your main calendar,
but I think this is a safe way to do it.
So, just imagine I'm on a go and I want
to quickly schedule something. It's just
way easier to text a Zoey like this than
to actually go into Google calendar and
create an event and do all that crap.
Okay, so this is the first use case.
This is a very simple use case. And to
make this work, all you got to do is
make sure Zoe has her own Gmail and
Google calendar and share your Google
calendar with her as read only or view
only access and then she can send you or
you can send yourself using her calendar
invites anytime that you want.
Okay, now let's go back to uh our use
cases and let's go to edit documents. So
I've created a file called Peter-ZE.
It's a blank document and basically what
I've done is I've shared it with Zoe's
email. So Zoe actually has edit access
to this file. All right. So let's just
say um I've created a doc called Peter
Zoey. [snorts]
Why don't you putting a plan for our
trip in that dock including Cal Train
ferry building visit and lunch after.
Okay. So if Zoe is uh smart, it should
recognize that this doc exists and it
should be able to add this interesting
content to that document. Okay. So that
took maybe like two minutes I would say.
And now let's take a look at this
document. Right. So Zoe has added a
family trip for us. Here we go. We're
going to leave from Burning Game Station
10:14, arrive in the city, and then we
are going to go to the ferry building.
Going to walk around. Here are some
lunch options that Zoe found for us. I
really love Hog Island Oyster Company,
although it's pretty crowded. And then
we're going to come back. Uh, and it's
even included some tips for us. So there
you go. So, as you can see, I've set up
Zoe so that she can edit Google Docs for
me, which is a massive timesaver, right?
For me to actually use chat GP instead
and try to copy paste this stuff into a
Google doc while on the go, it's just a
lot more work. Before we move on from
this use case, I want to show you how
Zoe can also edit Google spreadsheets.
So, here I have my content calendar for
upcoming blog posts and I'm going to
publish a tutorial on 24. Okay. So,
let's add Zoe. Now, I want you to add
the title. Uh, let's say Cloudbot. No,
it's not called Cloud anymore. It's
called uh OpenCloud. Master OpenC Cloud
in 20 minutes. Five actual use cases.
So, here's the title to my content
schedule. And just to make it easy,
let's link it and um let's say add it
next to 24. Okay, so this is maybe a
little bit more complicated than a
document because it's actually a
spreadsheet, right? And let's see if Zoe
can do this as well. All right, so there
you go. Zoe has added master open claw
in 20 minutes next to the exact cell
that I want. And uh yeah, now I can
update my content schedule just by
texting my assistant on the go. Just
super convenient. You know, one day
maybe Google will build this feature
natively, but for now, Zoe and Open Claw
is my best option. All right. Now, let's
go back to our five tasks. And this is a
fun one. Just be able to talk to it
using voice, right? So, how do you do
this? Just like with anything else, the
first thing I like to do is just ask
Zoe, what are some options? So, I've
already set up voice here with Zoe. So,
let's say pretend you don't have a voice
yet and we're setting this up from
scratch. What are some options that we
can explore? Okay, just like with
anything else, you just have to ask uh
Zoe or your open cloud bot to explore
some options. One thing I found with
this bot is that unlike other AI
products, it can usually do what you
want it to do. So, it's just really fun.
All right, so Zoe came back with a few
different options. So, there's free
options. EdTS, which is Microsoft's
voices. There are paid options like 11
Labs, Open Labs. TTS is actually what is
TTS? Let's just ask what is TTS?
You know, I I really don't like
acronyms. So, what is TTS? All right.
So, TTS is text to speech. Okay. Got it.
Because, you know, I'm cheap and uh I I
don't want to pay money, let's just use
Microsoft's voices, right? So, let's
say, tell me more about EdgeTS
options.
Okay. And let's see if it works. All
right. So, Ed HTTS uses Microsoft's
newer voices. It's free. There's
actually 300 voices. anything from Jenny
to Guy Sonia and so on. And how it works
is you configuring your gateway and so
on so forth. But we're just going to get
Open Claw and Zoe to do it for us,
right? So, you know, because I already
did this, let's just say, send me a
voice note by telling me a funny dad
joke. Okay. And let's see if Zoe can do
it. Okay. It seems to have sent this
through text. So, let's specify that we
actually want it through voice. Okay.
So, there we go. It sent me a voice
note. And I'm actually not sure if you
guys can hear the voice note, but I'm
gonna try to play it anyway. Okay, so if
you guys couldn't hear that, the joke
was, "Why don't scientists trust atoms?"
Because they make up everything. It's a
pretty lame joke, but I guess I asked it
for that joke, but you can imagine, you
know, how powerful this use case is,
right? Like I can get it to send me
greetings. I can get it to summarize
some document using voice. And I can
chat back and forth with it. me using
Whisper Flow and it replying through
voice notes. Okay. And to set this up
again, you just have to ask Zoe to set
up HTTS. Like that's literally what I
did. Just set up HTTS and it will do the
whole thing for you. All right. Now,
let's go back to our list and let's talk
about our last two use cases. Sending
daily briefings and sending weekly
reports. These are some of the most
powerful use cases that I found with
Zoey and OpenCloud. And the way this
stuff works is it just uses chron jobs,
right? Chron jobs are basically schedule
tasks that the AI runs, pulling together
a bunch of information APIs to give you
a good report. So, it's not super fancy,
but the fact that I can just set up
these chron jobs just by texting my AI
is so much easier than having to
configure some dashboard or anything
else. Okay. So, now let's ask Zoe to
give me my daily briefing. Uh, avoid
sharing any super sensitive
info because I'm recording
a tutorial.
Share it here in chat. All right. And
now if uh it works, Zoe is going to send
me a briefing with weather, upcoming
counter events, trending AI discussions,
and a personal thought based on his
memory and my public tweets.
So let's just wait a little bit for this
thing to load. Okay, so here is the
briefing thought. You've been
infrastructure mode all week setting me
up, refining briefings, connecting
tools. That's valuable, but some point
you need to make the content that it was
built for. Time to shift from building
to shipping. That's totally true. I've
been just been spend the whole weekend
setting up Zoe to do stuff. And
hopefully now it can actually help me
repurpose my content and other stuff
that I still have yet to do. All right.
Then there's the weather. There's
upcoming calendar invite. This is the
same thing that we just made. There's
upcoming posts in my content schedule.
There's trending discussion here about
topics that I'm interested in, right?
And it's asking me for what my focus is
today. So, I can just tell it here's my
focus and maybe it can send me reminders
throughout the day. So, this is super
useful, right? And to pull this
together, I had to link it to obviously
my Google calendar. I had to link it to
that content schedule sheet that you saw
before. And of course, it has read
access to my Twitter as well. Only read
access, not write access, just to be
safe. All right. So, you can personalize
this the way you want. You can set up a
daily briefing and link a bunch of
services together and just make it as
useful as you can. And I'll show you how
to manually edit this in a little bit.
All right. Now, let's take a look at the
weekly insight report. So, what is this
weekly insight report? So, this is an
email with stats from my latest YouTube
videos and substar articles. And Zoe
post all this together. And it also does
research on similar channels and
suggests content for me to make. So
here's an email that I got. This is in
the send box. Zoe sent this to me. And
this is my weekly creator briefing. So
content ideas. Claude co-work is very
popular. Alex and Greg both saw really
good results for that. The Ralph Wigum
agent pattern is also really popular.
and how I use Clockode as a PM at Roblox
uh is also a content idea because Claire
made a similar video that seem to have
done incredibly well. And below that is
kind of all my YouTube stats, my best
performing stuff and also even my
Substack stats. You see here, my five
most recent posts. Now, how did I set
all this up? So for YouTube, it uses a
free tool called YT-dLP
to pull public video data for me and
similar channels. And for Substack, it's
really interesting. There's actually no
public API for Substack. So what I did
was I added Zoey as an admin to my
Substack and it just uses the browser
that you see in here to browse for the
stats and pull it together for me,
right? And that is pretty incredible.
they can just use the browser and get
the stats for me. And I double checked
and the stats seem correct. So this is
super useful for me because it gives me
ideas to make content next based on real
metrics for my Substack and my YouTube
and also similar content. All right, so
again, if all this looks super
intimidating, it's really not. I set it
up all just by asking Zoe questions and
getting it to do stuff for me. All
right. So, those are five tasks that
I've dedicated to Zoe. And now I want to
talk about how to set up OpenClaw with
Google Workspace. Okay. Now, this is
really important and I want to cover
this because if you run your life on
Google Workspace like I do, then giving
your bot safe access to it is a mustave
so that it can manage your calendar,
edit your docs, and more that I just
demonstrated. So, first you need to give
Zoe its own Gmail account and share
access to specific files like I showed
you. Right now, after you've done that,
this is the painful part. You have to
set up a Google Cloud project. And
Google Cloud honestly is one of the
worst interfaces that I've ever used.
Okay. [laughter]
Uh, sorry Google, but this is just true.
All right. So, as usual, we're going to
get Zoe to walk us through how to do
this. So let's say pretend you don't
have Google Workspace access yet. I've
given you a dedicated Gmail and shared
my calendar and select files with you.
How to set up a Google Cloud project so
you can edit so you can view and edit my
stuff. All right. and Zoe, if it works
out, is going to give us some
step-by-step instructions.
Okay, here we go. So, there are a bunch
of steps and let's just kind of walk
through each step one by one. Step one,
go to Google Cloud Console and make a
new project. All right, so here we have
Google Cloud Console
and let's make a new project. You see
this? This UI is pretty bad. I don't
even remember how to make a new project.
Okay, I think I remember now. You have
to open the project picker and hit new
project. So let's just say new project
Zoe demo and let's hit create. There you
go. So now we have a project called Zoe
demo and it's making it right now. And
while we wait let's go back to Telegram.
So next step is to enable the APIs. So
you got to go to APIs and services
library and enable the APIs. All right,
let's go to Zoe demo and let's open the
navigation link. Go to APIs and
services. Click on this and enable some
APIs. Okay, so what APIs do we want to
enable? Well, we want to enable the
laundry list of APIs, all of Google
Workspace apps. So, let's start with
Gmail API. And literally, you have to
click enable here, right? One by one.
Again, it's really painful, but I
promise you that it's worth it. You got
to go to calendar API
and enable.
All right. And let's go back. And
instead of just going one by one, let me
kind of just show you the APIs that you
want to enable. So the next one you want
to enable is drive Google Drive API.
Just go here and click enable. Then you
have to enable the individual APIs for
the individual apps. So you got to go to
docs, Google docs API enable sheets
enable and slides enable. Okay. So make
sure just you just enable all these APIs
and once you do that you should be able
to see your enabled APIs somewhere down
here or somewhere uh let's see enabled
APIs and services and there you go down
here there should be a list of APIs that
you've enabled. We've only enabled Gmail
and Google calendar so far, but you want
to enable Drive, Sheets, Docs, and
Slides. Okay, now let's go back to Zoe.
Configure OOTH consent screen. Okay,
Oath consent screen. And let's choose
get started.
And let's just call it Zoe demo. Again,
for our app, we have to pick an email.
Next, and let's pick external. Zoe told
us to. and fill in the app name. Okay,
next email address. Let's do the Zoe
email again and let's click finish and
we'll create this. So basically we
created this thing and now we have to
add the scopes Gmail modify calendar and
so on so forth. So we have to configure
an OOTH client. I think I think that's
how it works. Okay. So yeah. So let's
configure OOTH clients. I believe it's a
desktop application.
Uh let me say yes desktop application.
Let's name it this create.
And now we have a JSON file here. Right.
So now we got to download the JSON file
and give it to Zoe to make it work. And
by the way, there's a step here to add
scopes. So I not sure if I did that or
not. And there's also a step here to add
your email as a test user. I'm just
going to skip these two steps for now,
but I think they're required. So, if you
get confused here, just again, just ask
Zoe how to set this up and make it work.
And you can even share screenshots of
Zoe and she'll understand what's going
on. She'll direct you to the exact
location to do it. All right, so we're
at the JSON step. We have the download
JSON. We have to basically uh paste the
JSON into Zoe and then ask it to set up
the remaining part process. Like this
stuff here, you can pretty much just do
it for you. Okay, you don't have to set
up this code yourself. just ask Zoe to
do it for you. Okay, so that was a maybe
not very good walkthrough of setting up
Open Claw and Zoe using Google
Workspace, but I just want to show you
this real quick because it probably took
me a good 30 minutes to set this up with
Zoe's help. But now it's totally worth
it again because now I can actually have
it manage my calendar, edit my
documents, and all the Google Workspace
stuff that you want it to do. And by the
way, if this is confusing, I have a full
written post that goes into more detail
about everything we just covered and the
setup process. So just go to the link in
the description and you can read through
it step by step. All right, last topic.
How [snorts] to make Open Claw truly
personal and useful. Now again, I'm
actually making this video from the Mac
Mini that I'm using to power Zoe. And
the way that this thing works is that
its memory and its personality is just
managed through a bunch of local MD
files, right? So somewhere in this Mac
Mini, there's a folder called claude.
And there's a bunch of files here. So
let me walk through each file one by
one. So
is a pretty deep sounding file, but it's
basically Zoe's personality, voice, and
values. User is information about me.
Identity is Zoe's name and vibe. And
memory is a very important file. It is
long-term curated memories that Zoe has
about our conversation. And heartbeat is
a file where every 30 minutes, Zoe would
periodically check this file to see if
there's any ongoing tasks. And there's
also a memory folder that has daily
notes. So, at the end of every day, Zoe
recaps my conversation with it. and
saves it in a daily note file. So
instead of talking about this more, let
me just show you some of these files.
All right, so here I have my text
editor, Sublime Text, and I've opened a
bunch of Zoe's files. So let's start
with the simple ones. So identity, who
am I? My name is Zoe. There's no
metaphor. I'm warm, sharp, and funny.
And I have a wave emoji. And you can
just make edits to this if you want, or
get Zoe to make edits through chat. So
this is pretty straightforward. Let's
look at so so you are not a chatbot.
You're becoming someone. Okay, I don't
know what that means. That sounds kind
of scary, but core truths, be generally
helpful, have opinions, be resourceful
before asking, earn trust through
competence, and remember that you are a
guest. It kind of just wrote all this
stuff by itself just through my
conversations with it. So, that's pretty
impressive. And down here, it has a
voice section. And this is actually
stuff that I've actually told it to
update its soul with. So I've told it to
be direct and honest. Don't be afraid to
contradict or critique my points. I've
told it not to use any AI slop. Don't
use these AI slop words or these AI slop
phrases like question answer format or
isn't about X, it's about Y. And I've
[snorts] told it to write in the active
voice. Minimize hedging. Try to avoid
making grandiose claims. And finally, do
not use emojis. You know, this is the
custom instructions that I also use on
claude and chatgbt and I've just kind of
told it to add it here. Okay, so this is
the so file. It's very important because
uh you want Zoe to respond the way that
you want it to. Let's keep going. Let's
go to the memory file. So the memory
file, there's a bunch of personal
information about me above the
connections row. So I'm not going to
show that, but let's just say it knows a
lot about my current situation, my
goals, uh what I'm trying to do, stuff
that gives me energy and takes energy
away. In fact, I've saved a lot of this
stuff in a plan document in my Google
Docs that it has access to as well, but
it just also in this memory file just
for reinforcement. But what I'm showing
here is a memory of what Zoe has access
to, right? So, it has access to Google
Workspace, GitHub, Twitter, Brave
Search, Telegram, and a bunch of other
stuff. So, it's good to remind it what
it has access to because then it knows
to look at the stuff when it's trying to
answer your questions or do stuff for
you. And you know down here is a really
interesting part that I added which is
open loops tensions and patterns.
[snorts] And again you know I have a
blog post in the description where I can
link all all this stuff but I think it's
really interesting to ask Zoe to add
this stuff to your memory. So open loops
is stuff that I've kind of committed to
or mentioned but hasn't really closed.
So this way Zoe can remind me about my
overarching goals or stuff that I need
to make progress on during my daily
brief. Tensions is contradictions or
gaps that are worth surfacing. So maybe
you know my public tweet personal life
is a little different from my private
chats with Zoe and it can help me
identify discrepancies and patterns is
what it notices about me over time. And
so far it's noticed that I'm energized
by building Zoe creator content autonomy
and a bunch of other stuff here. Right.
To be honest with you, there's a bunch
more stuff here that I deleted because I
don't want again I don't want to show my
personal information. But what I'm
trying to show you here is how you can
get OpenClaw and get this bot to
actually be super personal and useful to
you. And to do that, you have to go deep
into its inner workings and ask it to
have memory and ask it to challenge you
and ask it to remind you about your
overarching goals. You know, it's not
just something that gets stuff done for
you. You have to make kind of like a
friend and a personality that actually
helps you and guide you. And let me
quickly show you more files. So, this is
um a daily memory file that Zoe saves
every day. So, it has a bunch of stuff
that I've talked to it about as of
January 30th. So, one thing I talked to
it about is like I recently watched
Wicked Part Two and it's just kind of a
much crappier movie than Wicked Part
One. So, I was complaining to Zoe about
it and it kind of saved that. Not sure
how useful that is, but it has that
information now. And there's a bunch of
other stuff here. So, it's basically
saves these memory files every day. And
what you can do is you can actually ask
it to in your daily briefing ask it to
look at your past couple days of memory
files and remind you or find patterns
and consistencies and it can be more
insightful that way. The message I want
to get across here is that [snorts] you
can edit all these files directly
yourself or you can just get your bot to
update them for you. But keeping these
files clean and keeping these files
updated is really important because
that's how your bot can become more
personal and more useful. All right.
All right. So, I'm still discovering new
ways to use Open Claw and my bot Zoe
every day, but you can tell that I'm
pretty addicted, right? And I'm going to
share with it more of my creator
workflows and see which parts it can
take on instead. But I just want to say
I'm really impressed that one person
built this thing as an open source
project. And as far as I can see, Peter
is not really making any money from it.
I think Peter Steinberger, which I've
interviewed, is a shiny example of a
builder and tinkerer that I aspire to
be. Just look at all the projects that
he has here. You know, he's been
building open claw capabilities for a
long time and now he has this awesome
breakout app. Uh, if you enjoy this
tutorial, please like and subscribe for
more practical no AI tutorials
and interviews and check out my other
open claw content, including my
interview with Peter about how he built
this thing. And I hope you found this
helpful. I don't like to hype these AI
products. I don't like So, set
this thing up safely, tinker with it,
make it truly yours, hook it up to
Google Workspace, and start getting it
to do stuff for you. All right, I'll see
you next time.